===== PAGE 1 =====
Smart India Hackathon 2026 · Problem Statement 26171 · ISRO / Department of Space
PratiBimb
प्रतिबिम्ब — a reflection that reveals the structure, never the identity.
On the device
What the local models see · seva.gov.in/profile
Applicant
Rajesh Kumar
Aadhaar
4728 9163 5042
PAN
AKQPR8842C
Mobile
+91 98765 43210
Email
r.kumar@mail.in
Date of birth
14 / 03 / 1991
Address
221 Model Town, Ludhiana
Photograph
present
On the wire
The exact bytes the server receives
Applicant
<PII:NAME:1>
Aadhaar
<PII:AADHAAR:1>
PAN
<PII:PAN:1>
Mobile
<PII:PHONE:1>
Email
<PII:EMAIL:1>
Date of birth
<PII:DOB:1>
Address
<PII:ADDRESS:1>
Photograph
FACE:1
Fig. 1 The whole product in one image. Layout, field roles and data types survive; not one identifying character does.
The server still knows there is a twelve-digit numeric field labelled Aadhaar at those coordinates and can plan around it.
Location and state are redacted alongside the direct identifiers, because location plus date of birth is the textbook re-
identification pair.
Document
Pre-product engineering dossier
Version
4.0 — final, supersedes v3.0
Audience
Build team, evaluators, finale panel
Status
Implementation baseline. Contracts frozen;
models replaceable behind them; every
model gated on a feasibility row.
01 · The brief
What we were asked to build
ISRO wants a browser agent that can see your screen and act on it,
without your screen ever reaching their server.
trust boundary
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
1

===== PAGE 2 =====
Agentic pipelines run server-side, which limits what a user can safely share with them.
Deploying a local agent in the browser removes the need to send sensitive data at all — only
non-sensitive information, such as screen structure and application fields, need reach a
server.
Participants must build a privacy-preserving vision agent that runs in the browser. A local
Vision Transformer or equivalent model reads the screen and decides on that basis. If visual
context must be sent to a server, the client sanitizes sensitive and personally identifying data
first — using DOM tags or any other method — before any network request is made. It
should dynamically detect and redact sensitive elements: blurring faces, blacking out
passwords, masking PII. Only anonymized, unidentifiable data may be transmitted. The
server must be aware of the redaction scheme and process data accordingly, returning
actionable commands for the browser agent to execute.
Deliverables named in the statement
Client extension running in Chrome and Firefox, with a vision model executing locally,
e.g. via WebGPU.
A privacy filter — bounding-box redaction, semantic obfuscation, or masking —
demonstrated clearly.
A server hosting an open-weight LLM or VLM that interprets sanitized context and
returns either processed data or a UI action for the client to execute.
One end-to-end task that visibly assists a user.
Where the marks are
The rubric is the specification. Every decision in this document is traceable to a row in it.
Score weight, and which side of the trust boundary decides it
Visual context
25%
PII detection
20%
Redaction
20%
Client resources
20%
Latency
15%
Solid = decided client-side · Hatched = shared client/server. Roughly 60% of the score is settled entirely on the user's
machine; a further 40% is shared, and the client dominates the shared portion.
Fig. 2 Engineering effort splits roughly 70/30 in favour of the client. Corrected in v3.0: v2.0 claimed 85% was decided
client-side. Visual-context accuracy is measured end-to-end and depends on the server's ability to reason over a
redacted frame, so it is shared, not ours alone. Overstating our share is the kind of claim a panel will test — and the
honest number is still overwhelming.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
2

===== PAGE 3 =====
02 · Product thesis
A privacy firewall that happens to power an agent
Redact the value, preserve its semantic type, and let only the trusted
client restore it.
The obvious build is screenshot → blur faces → send to a VLM. It fails, and it fails in a way
that is easy to demonstrate. The moment you black out the user's phone number, the server
can no longer instruct the agent to type the phone number. Privacy has eaten the product.
PratiBimb resolves this with a redaction manifest and a memory-only vault. Every sensitive
span is replaced by a typed placeholder — <PII:PHONE:1> — that carries the shape of the
data without its content. The server plans in placeholders. The client substitutes real values
at the instant of execution. The server is functionally complete and structurally blind.
Five principles
1. The client never trusts the server. Server output is a proposal, validated against an
allowlist locally, and re-validated against the live page, before anything executes.
2. Fail closed. When a detector errors, times out, or disagrees, the union of masks wins. An
over-mask costs nothing, because re-hydration restores the capability. A missed Aadhaar
number ends the demo.
3. Page content is data, never instruction. Text scraped from a website cannot direct the
agent. Only the user's stated goal can.
4. Measure before optimising. The evaluation harness is built in week two, not week six.
5. Secrets cross as references; everything else crosses as itself. v4.0 The server may
reference a vault token, and it may propose a plain literal for a field that holds nothing
sensitive — a search term, a district, a year. What it may never do is emit a string the
vault already contains, because that would mean it reconstructed a secret it was never
given. The client decides which of those three cases it is looking at, on every action.
03 · Threat model new in v3.0
Four adversaries, four answers
A privacy claim without a named adversary is decoration. These are
the four we defend against, and where in the boundary each defence
sits.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
3

===== PAGE 4 =====
Adversary
What it can do
Mitigation, and where it lives
Compromised or curious
server
Read every byte we transmit; return a
malicious plan
Values never leave: opaque fill on the outgoing
bitmap, tokens in the manifest, vault in client RAM.
Returned plans pass the action allowlist and the
freshness check before touching the page. Egress
guard + local validator.
Malicious webpage
Inject instructions into text the agent
scrapes; overlay or clickjack a control
Page text is framed as data in the prompt and
never as instruction. DOM/vision disagreement
above threshold flags an overlay. Irreversible
actions stop for a human. Content script + prompt
construction + confirmation tier.
Faulty local detector
Miss an Aadhaar number, time out, or
crash mid-pipeline
Four-channel union with fail-closed semantics; a
timeout counts as a positive. Differential second-
pass verifier plus value-aware residual check.
Three failures block the request rather than
degrading it. Privacy verifier.
Incorrect or hostile VLM
Hallucinate coordinates, invent tokens,
emit an unsafe action, echo a value
Guided JSON constrains generation; Pydantic
validates on egress; the client re-validates on
ingress. Unknown tokens abort. A literal aimed at
a redacted field aborts. A literal that matches a
vault value is treated not as a defect but as a leak:
the session halts and the run is recorded as failed.
Action schema + validator.
Stated scope limit — prepare this answer
The server sees layout, field roles, data types and the user's goal. A determined adversary
correlating quasi-identifiers across many sessions is outside our threat model, and we say
so rather than implying otherwise. We reduce the surface where it is cheap: coarse
location, employer and institution names are redacted alongside direct identifiers,
because location plus date of birth is the classic re-identification pair. We do not claim k-
anonymity or differential privacy, and we will not let a slide imply we do.
04 · The loop
Observe, sanitize, reason, act
One pipeline, memorised by everyone on the team, printed on every
slide.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
4

===== PAGE 5 =====
1 Observe
capture +
DOM
2 Perceive
elements,
faces
3 Sanitize
detect +
redact
4 Verify
or block
5 Reason
server VLM
6 Plan
action JSON
7 Validate
allowlist
8 Refresh
target still real?
9 Re-hydrate
vault lookup
10 Act
+ check result
Nothing crosses until stage 4 passes. Nothing executes until stages 7 and 8 both pass. Loop until the goal is met, or the agent
stops and asks.
Fig. 3 Six local stages surround the server call, and they are the entire contribution. A conventional browser agent
collapses 1–4 into "take a screenshot" and 7–10 into "click the coordinates". Added in v3.0: stage 8, action freshness.
A plan computed against a frame that is now 900 ms old may target an element that has moved, closed, or been
replaced by an overlay.
Stage 8 in detail: action freshness
Before executing, the client re-checks that the target element still exists, that its role and
accessible name still match what was reported to the server, that it is visible and enabled,
and that its bounding box has not moved beyond a tolerance. A failed freshness check does
not guess — it discards the plan, re-observes, and issues a new request. This is cheap
(single-digit milliseconds), and it closes the window in which a page can swap a benign
control for a harmful one after the screenshot but before the click.
05 · System
Architecture
Two processes, one boundary, one choke point for everything that
crosses it.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
5

===== PAGE 6 =====
User machine — trusted
Content script
Derived element graph: roles, accessible names, input
types, ARIA, geometry, visibility. MutationObserver as
primary change signal. Same-origin frames via
all_frames.
Action executor
Freshness check, then click, type, scroll, select. Verifies
post-conditions and reports back.
Offscreen document · Web Worker
Chrome: chrome.offscreen · Firefox: MV3 event page
T0 · MutationObserver, dHash on demand — change gate
T1 · UI element detector · YuNet faces — every changed frame
T2 · PP-OCR (non-DOM regions) · GLiNER-PII
T3 · local VLM — offline fallback, isolated worker, lazy-loaded
ONNX Runtime Web · WebGPU when available, WASM always
Redaction engine
Opaque fill on OffscreenCanvas, semantic token label
composited over the fill. Un-redacted bitmap closed
immediately.
Privacy verifier
Differential second pass over the encoded frame, plus
value-aware residual check against the vault. Three
failures block, not degrade.
Re-hydration vault
Memory only. Never localStorage,
IndexedDB, chrome.storage, logs or
analytics. Destroyed on session end
and tab change.
Privacy ledger
Exact image and JSON transmitted,
payload hash, redaction counts,
stage timings, and the live
WebGPU/WASM capability state.
Local validator
Allowlist, unknown-token rejection,
literal-PII rejection, origin policy.
Irreversible actions pause for a
human.
Egress guard — the only code in the extension permitted to call the network
Refuses to transmit unless manifest.verified === true. Enforced by a lint rule banning fetch and XMLHttpRequest elsewhere, and
by a CI test that asserts zero outbound requests under every failure injection.
▼ sanitized context only — WebP frame + redaction manifest + user goal  ·  ▲ action plan in placeholders
Server — untrusted with respect to PII
FastAPI + Pydantic v2
Schema validation on both inbound
and outbound payloads. Failure
aborts; there is no best-effort parse.
vLLM · Qwen3-VL
Guided JSON decoding. Manifest
legend injected into the system
prompt. Page text framed as data.
PII tripwire
Scans every inbound payload. Logs
class, request id, bbox and detector
— never the plaintext. Any hit is a
logged defect.
Fig. 4 The tripwire is deliberate defence in depth: an independent, adversarial measurement of the client's redaction
quality. "Server-side PII detections across the full evaluation run: zero" is a stronger claim than any self-report from the
client. Changed in v3.0: the tripwire logs metadata only. A privacy component that writes leaked plaintext into a server
log has recreated the problem it exists to detect.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
6

===== PAGE 7 =====
The egress invariant
This is stated as a security property, not a coding convention, because it is the one claim the
whole submission rests on:
Invariant E
No outbound network request originates from the extension unless it was issued by the
egress module, and the egress module issues no request unless the verifier has returned
verified === true for a byte artifact whose hash equals the hash of the buffer being
transmitted.
Enforced four ways: a lint rule that fails the build on fetch , XMLHttpRequest ,
sendBeacon or WebSocket outside the egress module; a Playwright test that installs a
request interceptor and asserts zero requests under each injected failure; a manifest
content security policy restricting connect-src to the configured server origin; and the
hash pin described immediately below.
One payload, one hash, no window in between new in v4.0
Verifying a canvas and then encoding it, or verifying an object and then serializing it, leaves
a gap in which the thing checked is not the thing sent. The payload is therefore constructed
once, as a single immutable artifact: the encoded WebP frame and the serialized manifest,
assembled into the exact multipart body that will go on the wire. That artifact is hashed.
Verification runs against it. The egress module accepts a buffer only when its hash equals
the hash the verifier signed.
Nothing is re-encoded, re-serialized or mutated between those two moments — a change of
a single byte invalidates the pin and the send fails closed. This also makes the audit trail
exact: the hash the privacy ledger displays is the same number the verifier approved and the
same body the panel can read in the network inspector. Three independent views of one
artifact, and they either agree or the request never happened.
The coordinate contract
Twenty-five percent of the score is grounding accuracy, and the commonest way to lose it is
silently: everything works at device pixel ratio 1.0 on the development laptop and falls apart
on a HiDPI judging machine at 125% zoom. One canonical space is defined and every
component converts at its edge.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
7

===== PAGE 8 =====
Space
Used by
Conversion rule
CSS viewport pixels —
canonical
Manifest, action plans,
ledger
Origin at viewport top-left. All manifest boxes and all returned
action coordinates are in this space, always.
Device pixels
tabs.captureVisibleTab
output
Divide by devicePixelRatio on capture. Recorded in the
manifest capture block.
Capture pixels
Downscaled frame sent to
the server
Uniform scale factor recorded in the manifest. The server may
reply in either capture or CSS space; the field is explicit and
the client converts.
Document pixels
Off-screen elements
known from DOM
Offset by scroll position. Never sent as an action target without
a preceding scroll.
A CI test renders a fixture at DPR 1.0, 1.5 and 2.0 and at 100% and 125% zoom, and asserts
that the same logical element resolves to the same CSS-pixel box in all six. This test exists
before the executor is written.
Content below the fold new in v3.0
Capture is viewport-only, so on a long form the agent cannot see most of the fields. The
DOM extractor therefore reports off-screen elements as known but uncaptured: role, accessible
name and document-space geometry, with no pixel evidence and no vision cross-check. The
server can plan a scroll toward a named field it has never seen, and the next observation
confirms it. Without this, a multi-field form silently caps the agent at whatever fits on one
screen — which is exactly the demo the panel will ask us to run.
06 · Perception
Vision on every changed frame, heavy analysis only when
it earns it
Four models, roughly 120 MB resident. The expensive tiers are
gated. The vision tier is not.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
8

===== PAGE 9 =====
The framing correction that matters most in v3.0
Version 2.0 presented tiering as evidence that PratiBimb rarely runs vision — the local
VLM was shown firing zero times, and OCR on nought to two regions. That is good
engineering and a bad answer to this brief. The problem statement requires a local vision
model that reads the screen and decides on that basis. A panel that watches a run where
the DOM does all the work has an easy line: you built a DOM scraper with a redaction layer.
The architecture does not change. The framing and the demonstration do. T1 vision runs
on every frame where the screen changed — that is the always-on perception tier. T0 is a
debounce, not an avoidance strategy. And the demonstration now includes content where
the DOM is empty by construction, so vision is visibly load-bearing rather than merely
present.
Tiered perception over a ten-step form-filling task
T0
Change gate — structural signal plus bounded visual pollingSub-millisecond for the
structural half, no model. MutationObserver names the dirty subtree exactly and for free;
registered dynamic regions are hashed at a bounded rate; a low-rate full-frame hash
bounds the worst case. See the change policy below.
~100 evaluations
~8 captures
T1
Perceive — UI element detector + YuNet faces12.3 MB. Runs on every changed frame
— precisely defined below, and not the same thing as every rendered frame. This is the
local vision model the brief requires, and it is on the normal path.
fires ~8×
T2
Sanitize — selective OCR + GLiNER-PII105 MB. Runs when a request is about to leave,
on non-DOM regions and dirty subtrees only.
fires ~3×
T3
Local VLM — offline fallback~240 MB, loaded on demand in an isolated worker, torn
down immediately after. Kept out of the normal path so the resource figure stays
defensible.
fires 0× online
Fig. 5 Reported under client resource utilisation: peak heap, peak GPU memory, weights on disk, and this firing
distribution. The capture count is separated from the evaluation count because tabs.captureVisibleTab is neither
free nor unrestricted — it is rate-limited, particularly under activeTab — so a change gate that assumed a free capture
per evaluation, as v2.0 did, was not implementable.
Two change signals, one policy new in v4.0
Version 3.0 made MutationObserver the primary gate and left the impression that it reports
everything that visually changed. It does not, and the claim would not survive a question. A
page can change on screen with no mutation record at all: CSS animations and transitions,
canvas and WebGL drawing, video frames, pseudo-element content, timer- and scroll-driven
visual state, and repaints inside cross-origin frames.
The precise statement is that MutationObserver is the structural signal, and perceptual
hashing is the visual signal for regions structural observation cannot reach. A changed
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
9

===== PAGE 10 =====
frame is one in which the change policy reports an observable-state change from either
signal — that is the definition T1 is gated on.
Signal
Mechanism
Covers
Cost
Structural
MutationObserver on the document;
ResizeObserver on tracked elements
Subtree edits, attribute and
text changes, geometry,
insertion and removal
Free, event-driven, names
the dirty node
Visual
dHash over registered dynamic
regions, at a bounded poll rate, only
while they intersect the viewport
canvas, video, WebGL,
elements with running
animations
One partial capture per
poll, not per rendered
frame
Safety net
Full-frame dHash at a low fixed
interval
Anything both signals miss
One capture per interval,
capped
Dynamic regions are enumerated rather than guessed: <canvas> and <video> elements,
plus anything reporting a running animation through document.getAnimations() . The
enumeration re-runs on structural change, not per frame, and IntersectionObserver
suppresses polling for regions that are off screen.
The honest answer to "how do you know a frame changed without capturing continuously?"
We do not claim to detect every visual change for free. We claim three narrower things,
and each is testable. Structural change is observed exactly, at zero cost, and identifies
which node changed. Visually dynamic regions are enumerated once and polled at a
bounded rate, so cost scales with how dynamic the page actually is rather than with its
frame rate. And a low-rate full-frame hash bounds the worst case, so nothing can go
unnoticed indefinitely.
On a page that is one full-screen canvas animation, this degrades to the poll rate, and we
will say so rather than pretend otherwise. Every page in the demonstration and the
evaluation set is measured with the tier firing distribution visible, so the cost of the policy
is a reported number, not an assurance.
The DOM is the primary sensor, and vision is not decorative
The brief explicitly permits sanitisation "using DOM tags or any other method". For text the
browser rendered itself, you already hold the exact string and its bounding box — asking
OCR to rediscover it is slower and less accurate. But the DOM is blind to an entire class of
content that appears constantly on Indian government and banking pages: scanned identity
documents, canvas-rendered charts, embedded PDFs, and photographs.
The DOM already knows
— role, accessible name, label
— input type, autocomplete token
Only vision can see
— scanned PAN and Aadhaar cards
— text inside images and PDFs
Fused element graph
— matched on IoU > 0.5
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
10

===== PAGE 11 =====
— exact text and its box
— visibility, enabled state, ARIA
— free, exact, no inference error
— canvas-rendered interfaces
— faces, signatures, stamps
— cross-origin iframes, overlays
— DOM-matched: actioned by selector,
robust to reflow
— vision-only: actioned by coordinate,
synthetic id
— disagreement above threshold flags
an overlay
Fusion raises grounding accuracy and cuts latency at the same time, so it scores on the
visual-context metric and the latency metric together. It also catches disagreements between
DOM and pixels — the signature of an overlay or a clickjacking attempt, which is why the
same mechanism appears in the threat model.
Precise terminology v3.0
Version 2.0 described the content script as reading the accessibility tree. It does not, and
cannot: chrome.automation is ChromeOS-only for extensions, and no content-script API
exposes the browser's native AX tree. What we build is a derived element graph from roles,
ARIA attributes, accessible-name computation, computed styles and geometry. The
approximation is entirely adequate. Claiming the real thing to a panel that knows the
extension APIs is an unforced credibility loss, of exactly the kind the WebGPU section below
warns against.
07 · Privacy
Four detectors, one union, no exceptions
Recall is prioritised over precision, because over-masking is free and
under-masking is fatal.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
11

===== PAGE 12 =====
D1 · DOM semantics
type=password, autocomplete tokens, aria-label, field names.
Zero cost, near-perfect precision.
passwords · OTP · card · email
D2 · Deterministic
Pattern plus checksum. Verhoeff and Luhn kill the false
positives that regex alone creates.
Aadhaar · PAN · IFSC · UPI · GSTIN
D3 · Semantic NER
GLiNER, zero-shot — the entity list is supplied at inference
time, so new categories are a config change.
names · addresses · employers · location
D4 · Visual
YuNet faces, plus a small fine-tuned detector head trained on
our own synthetic set.
faces · signatures · ID cards · QR
Union — fail closed
Boxes dilated 4 px and merged at IoU > 0.3. A detector that errors or times out counts as a positive.
▼
Redaction manifest
Each span carries class, token, box, method, confidence, length and representation hint, and the field role where useful.
Fig. 6 The four channels are ordered by confidence, not by sophistication. D1 and D2 need no machine learning at all
and already cover most structured Indian PII — which is why they ship first and the pipeline can be built and measured
before any model is integrated.
Indian identifier validators
This is where the submission earns its domain credibility. Format matching alone flags
every twelve-digit order number as an Aadhaar; the checksum is what makes precision
defensible, and precision is a fifth of the score.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
12

===== PAGE 13 =====
Identifier
Pattern
Validation that earns the precision
Aadhaar
\d{4}\s?\d{4}\s?\d{4}
Verhoeff checksum over all twelve digits
PAN
[A-Z]{5}\d{4}[A-Z]
Fourth character must be a valid holder-type code.
Note: PAN's final character is a check digit whose
algorithm is not public, so this is format plus
structure, not a checksum — do not oversell it.
IFSC
[A-Z]{4}0[A-Z0-9]{6}
Fifth character is always zero; bank-code table
lookup
UPI VPA
[\w.\-]{2,}@[a-z]{2,}
Handle allowlist — okaxis, ybl, paytm, upi
Mobile
(\+91[-\s]?)?[6-9]\d{9}
Leading digit constrained to 6–9
Payment card
13–19 digits
Luhn checksum plus issuer range
GSTIN
\d{2}[A-Z]{5}\d{4}[A-Z]\d[Z]
[A-Z\d]
State-code table, embedded PAN check, and the
mod-36 check digit over the first fourteen characters
v3.0
Vehicle registration
[A-Z]{2}\d{2}[A-Z]{1,3}\d{4}
State and RTO code tables
Confidentiality classes, kept as configuration v3.0
The recommendation to extend beyond obvious PII is right in principle and dangerous in
scope. A configurable policy engine is six weeks of work for zero rubric points. Because
GLiNER is zero-shot, the same benefit is available as a config file:
Class
Examples
Treatment
CRITICAL
passwords, OTP, card numbers,
private keys
Masked; never tokenised for server reference; never re-
hydrated without explicit per-use confirmation
SENSITIVE
Aadhaar, PAN, GSTIN, account
numbers, medical text
Masked and tokenised; re-hydrated at execution
PERSONAL
name, phone, email, address,
DOB, photograph, employer, city
Masked and tokenised; re-hydrated at execution
CONFIDENTIAL
balances, internal document
titles, source code, salary figures
Masked and tokenised. Entity list lives in a JSON config
passed to GLiNER at inference time — adding a category is a
one-line change, not a training run.
PUBLIC
navigation, headings, button
labels, generic body copy
Transmitted unchanged; this is what lets the server reason at
all
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
13

===== PAGE 14 =====
Redaction, and why it is opaque fill
Gaussian blur and pixelation are lossy but recoverable in distribution — deconvolution and
reconstruction attacks routinely recover blurred text and mosaiced faces when the kernel
can be estimated. Applying a CSS filter and then screenshotting is worse still: it is a
compositing race, and if the frame has not flushed, raw pixels ship.
Every transmitted mask is therefore a constant-colour opaque fill, composited onto an
OffscreenCanvas inside the worker. The un-redacted bitmap is closed immediately after
masking and never referenced again. Blur remains available as a display-side courtesy, never
on the buffer that leaves.
Semantic labels on top of the fill v3.0
The token string is rendered in small type over the opaque fill before encoding, so the
outgoing image carries <PII:AADHAAR:1> where the digits were. The server then sees the
same token in the pixels and in the manifest, which measurably helps a VLM associate a
field with its type and its label. Two constraints: the label is composited strictly after the fill,
never instead of it; and the verifier is aware of its own labels and does not flag them as
residual text.
The verifier, and why the second pass must differ
The tautology v2.0 shipped with
Re-running the same detectors at the same settings on the same image will find the same
nothing they found the first time. A detector that missed an Aadhaar number will miss it
again. As specified in v2.0, the verifier could only ever confirm its own first pass.
Verification is therefore explicitly differential, and is supplemented by a check that does not
depend on detection at all:
Pass
How it differs from detection
Structural re-read
OCR runs over the entire redacted frame at higher resolution and a lower confidence
threshold. Detection ran selectively on non-DOM regions at normal threshold. Different
scope, different settings, genuinely independent result.
Value-aware residual check
v3.0
For every value currently held in the vault, search the recovered text for exact and fuzzy
matches — normalised n-grams, whitespace-insensitive, tolerant of OCR confusions
such as 0/O and 1/l. This catches a survival even when the detector that should have
found it is broken, because it starts from the known secret rather than from a model's
opinion. The check runs in the worker, and never logs the value.
Encoded-bytes verification
v3.0
Both passes run against the decoded WebP bytes that will actually be transmitted, not
the pre-encode canvas. Verifying a buffer that is not the one on the wire leaves a gap,
however theoretical.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
14

===== PAGE 15 =====
1 · Apply masks
opaque fill, then semantic label
2 · Encode
WebP q62, then decode the bytes
back
3 · Re-read
full-frame OCR, low threshold
4 · Re-detect
D2 and D3 over recovered text
5 · Value check
fuzzy match against vault contents
6 · Decide
Clean → verified = true. Survivor →
dilate the offending region by 12 px
and repeat. Three failures → block.
Blocked requests fall back to structure-only mode — manifest without image — and the user is told
Cost of the full verification path: ≈40 ms on WebGPU, ≈95 ms on WASM. Projected, not yet measured.
Fig. 7 The verifier is not advisory. A pipeline that cannot refuse to transmit has no way to prove its redaction worked —
it can only assert it. Residual leakage becomes a measured quantity rather than a promise, which is the only reason the
zero-leakage claim is worth making.
Fail-closed test matrix v3.0
Every row is an automated test. The assertion in every case is identical: zero outbound
requests.
Detector failures
— OCR worker crash
— detector timeout at 200 ms
— GLiNER returns malformed spans
— face detector out of memory
— two detectors disagree on a span
Pipeline failures
— malformed manifest
— unknown PII class in config
— verifier itself throws
— three consecutive verify failures
— canvas composite fails
— WebP encode returns empty
Boundary failures
— vault empty at re-hydration
— server returns unknown token
— literal aimed at a redacted field
— literal matching a vault value
— payload hash does not match the pin
— plan fails schema validation
— plan fails freshness check
— action outside allowlist
08 · The mechanism
Re-hydration
The signature idea, and the reason privacy does not cost capability.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
15

===== PAGE 16 =====
1 · Detected on screen
+91 98765 43210 — found by D1 (autocomplete=tel) and D2 (pattern) independently
2 · Stored and tokenised in the vault
<PII:PHONE:1> → "9876543210" · RAM only, worker scope, destroyed on tab change
3 · The token crosses; the value does not
manifest: class PHONE, bbox, hint { len 10, kind numeric }, field role "tel"
4 · The server plans in placeholders
{ action: "type", target: "e12", value_ref: "<PII:PHONE:1>" } — never a literal
5 · Client validates
allowlist ✓ · token known to vault ✓ · no literal in value field ✓ · target still fresh ✓
6 · Restored locally, then typed
9876543210 enters the field. The server never saw a digit.
Fig. 8 The manifest carries a type hint — ten characters, numeric — so the server can still reason about field validation
and layout. Obfuscate the value; preserve the type. That distinction is what separates a redaction that breaks the task
from one that does not.
The type action, and the three checks behind it rewritten in v4.0
A functional defect in v3.0
Version 3.0 permitted type to carry a value_ref and nothing else. That is airtight and
unusable. Search for Chandrayaan-3. Select Punjab. Enter 2026. Most of what a browser agent
types is not secret, and a schema that cannot express a non-sensitive literal cannot drive a
browser. The rule was written to stop the server leaking a value it should never have had,
and it caught far more than that.
The action therefore carries exactly one of two fields, and the client decides which was
legitimate:
Field
When the server must use it
What the client checks before typing
value_ref
Whenever the target element
carries a redaction token in the
manifest
Token is known to the vault. Unknown tokens abort — an 8B
model under guided decoding will occasionally emit
<PII:PHONE:2> when only :1 exists, and the client never
guesses which was meant.
value_literal
For any field with no redaction
token: search boxes, dropdowns,
dates, free text
Three checks, below. All three must pass.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
16

===== PAGE 17 =====
The three checks on a literal
1. Target check. If the target element's manifest record carries a redaction token, a literal is
rejected outright, whatever it contains. A sensitive field is filled by reference or not at all.
2. Shape check. The literal is run through D1, D2 and D3. Anything PII-shaped is rejected
and logged as a server defect — the server should have used a reference, and the fact that
it did not is worth measuring.
3. Vault check. The literal is compared, exactly and fuzzily, against every value the vault
holds. A match is not a defect. It is a leak. The server has reproduced a secret it was
never sent, which means something upstream failed. The session halts, the ledger records
it, and the run counts as a residual-leakage failure.
The distinction in check three matters more than it looks. A PII-shaped literal the server
invented is a bug in the plan. A literal that matches the vault is evidence that redaction
failed somewhere earlier in the pipeline, and the two should never be logged as the same
event.
One consequence worth stating for the viva: permitting literals does not open an exfiltration
path. Typing is not sending. Submission, purchase and messaging remain behind the
human confirmation tier, and navigation remains behind the origin policy, so a hostile page
that persuades the agent to type something still cannot get that text off the machine.
Manifest schema, version 1.1
The brief requires the server to be aware of the redaction scheme, so the scheme is a
versioned contract rather than an implementation detail. Its legend is injected into the server
system prompt, and the TypeScript types are generated from the same Pydantic models the
server validates against.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
17

===== PAGE 18 =====
// client → server
{
  "manifest_version": "1.1",
  "capture": {
    "w": 1024, "h": 640, "format": "webp", "q": 62,
    "dpr": 2.0, "zoom": 1.0, "scale_to_css": 0.5,   // coordinate contract
    "scroll": { "x": 0, "y": 480 },
    "origin": "https://seva.gov.in"
  },
  "capability": { "backend": "webgpu", "tiers_fired": ["T0","T1","T2"] },
  "redactions": [
    { "token": "<PII:PHONE:1>", "class": "PHONE", "tier": "PERSONAL",
      "bbox": [412, 308, 196, 22], "method": "opaque_fill+label",
      "confidence": 0.99, "detectors": ["D1","D2"],
      "hint": { "len": 10, "kind": "numeric", "field_role": "tel" } }
  ],
  "elements": [
    { "id": "e12", "role": "textbox", "name": "Phone",
      "bbox": [400, 260, 300, 32], "source": "dom+vision",
      "visible": true, "enabled": true },
    { "id": "e31", "role": "button", "name": "Submit",
      "bbox": [400, 1180, 120, 40], "source": "dom",
      "visible": false, "offscreen": true },   // known, not yet seen
  ],
  "verified": true,
  "goal": "Complete the application form"
}
09 · Server and safety
A narrow contract, validated twice
The server returns a plan, not code. Its output is constrained at generation time by guided
decoding, validated by Pydantic before it leaves the server, and validated again by the client
before it touches the page. The client never trusts the server, because page content reaches
the server's context and a compromised plan must not become a compromised browser.
Permitted actions
— click
— type (value_ref, or a cleared literal)
— scroll
— select
— wait
— zoom_request
— confirm
— done
Never in the schema
— execute_javascript, eval
— shell commands
— download-and-run
— navigation to model-supplied URLs
— a literal aimed at a redacted field
— a literal matching a vault value
Requires human confirmation
— submit, purchase, delete
— send a message
— anything touching authentication
— navigation to a new origin
— re-hydrating a CRITICAL-class value
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
18

===== PAGE 19 =====
zoom_request is worth defending in the viva: rather than always transmitting a large
image, the server may ask for a higher-resolution crop of a specific region. Progressive
disclosure lowers latency and reduces the sanitized surface area at the same time.
Origin and navigation policy v3.0
The client tracks the current origin and records it in the manifest. Arbitrary model-supplied
URLs stay outside the grammar entirely. A navigation that would change origin —
including one triggered by clicking a link the model chose — pauses for human
confirmation showing the destination. The vault is destroyed on origin change regardless of
confirmation, so a value captured on a government portal can never be re-hydrated into a
form on a different site.
Real workflows do cross origins — a services portal handing off to a payments host is
ordinary, not suspicious — so the policy permits the crossing and refuses only the carry-
over:
1 · Crossing proposed
by a plan, or by the page itself
2 · Destination shown
full target origin and the reason, in the side panel
3 · Human confirms
declining ends the task rather than silently continuing
4 · Vault destroyed
unconditionally, before the navigation commits
5 · Fresh session
the new origin is observed from scratch; any value it needs must be present and detected there
Fig. 9 The crossing is allowed; the secrets do not come along. Rehearsal note: no demonstration sequence may
depend on a value surviving an origin change. A run that quietly relies on carry-over will work in practice until the policy
fires in front of the panel, which is the worst possible moment to discover it.
Prompt injection
Text scraped from a page reaches the server's context, so a hostile page will attempt to issue
instructions. Four layers answer this: page content is framed as data and never as
instruction; the output grammar admits no action capable of arbitrary execution; every
irreversible step stops for a human; and the origin policy prevents exfiltration by navigation.
The agent can be misled about what to look at. It cannot be talked into doing something
outside the allowlist.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
19

===== PAGE 20 =====
This is demonstrated rather than asserted — see the adversarial sequence in section 15.
10 · Performance
Two latency budgets, because we will be judged on the
slower one
Every number below is a projected budget. None is a measured
result, and none appears on a slide until the harness produces it.
Why v2.0's single 1.1 s figure was a liability
The v2.0 waterfall assumed the WebGPU path throughout. Our own risk table rates
"judging machine has no WebGPU" as high likelihood. The WASM number is therefore
the one the panel is most likely to see, and it was absent from the document. Presenting a
WebGPU-only budget while planning for a WASM demo is the sort of gap a panel finds
in thirty seconds.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
20

===== PAGE 21 =====
Per-step budget, full pipeline (projected p50, mid-range laptop)
Stage
WebGPU
WASM/SIMD
Fires every step?
Capture + downscale
18 ms
18 ms on change only
Change gate
<1 ms
<1 ms yes
DOM extraction
12 ms
12 ms yes
UI element detection
35 ms
140 ms on change only
Face detection
8 ms
22 ms on change only
Selective OCR
90 ms
260 ms pre-egress only
PII detection
45 ms
120 ms pre-egress only
Redact + composite
12 ms
12 ms pre-egress only
Verify (differential + value-aware)
40 ms
95 ms pre-egress only
Encode + network
60 ms
60 ms pre-egress only
Server reasoning (Qwen3-VL-4B)
620 ms
620 ms pre-egress only
Freshness check + execute
25 ms
25 ms yes
Full pipeline step
≈965 ms
≈1,385 ms
Cached step — no vision, no network
≈38 ms
≈38 ms
Local-decision step — vision, no network
v3.0
≈98 ms
≈235 ms
Server reasoning is 64% of the WebGPU budget and 45% of the WASM budget. Privacy — redaction plus verification — is
52 ms of 965 and 107 ms of 1,385: between five and eight percent. Server hardware must be stated whenever this table is
shown.
Fig. 10 Worth saying out loud when the panel asks what privacy costs: redaction and verification together are single-
digit percentages of wall-clock time. The dominant term is remote inference, which is exactly the term the caching and
local-decision strategies are designed to avoid paying.
Skipping the server entirely new in v3.0
The highest-leverage latency win available is not shaving milliseconds off OCR. It is not
making the request at all. When the fused element graph contains a textbox whose
autocomplete token or accessible name maps unambiguously to a class the vault holds, the
client fills it directly. No manifest, no encode, no 620 ms round trip.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
21

===== PAGE 22 =====
This is also the cleanest answer to the brief's requirement that a local model read the screen
and decide on that basis. The decision — this field is a phone field, I hold a phone value, no
server is needed — is made locally from perception. On a ten-field form we expect this to
cover the majority of steps, and it produces the single most quotable number in the
submission: steps completed with no network request at all, out of ten.
Model feasibility matrix new in v4.0
Each cell records four things: does the session load, p50 latency on a fixed fixture, peak
heap, and output correctness against a known-good reference. No model enters the build
until its row is complete, and a model that fails the WASM columns is not shipped
whatever it does on WebGPU — the judging machine is more likely to be the WASM one.
Model
Chrome
WebGPU
Chrome
WASM
Firefox
WebGPU
Firefox
WASM (Linux)
UI element detector
—
—
—
—
YuNet faces
—
—
—
—
PP-OCRv5-mobile
—
—
—
—
GLiNER-PII
—
—
—
—
SmolVLM (offline path)
—
—
—
—
Twenty cells, filled in week one and re-run in continuous integration thereafter. The table is
also the answer to a likely question about cross-browser parity: we do not assert it, we
publish it.
Where else the time is won back
Screen-state cache. A persistent representation of the page, updated per element rather
than rebuilt. On a form-filling task this covers 50–60% of captures.
Region-of-interest re-analysis. MutationObserver names the dirty subtree, so OCR and
PII detection re-run on that node alone.
Warm start. ONNX sessions compiled at extension startup. Cold-start cost is measured
and reported separately, but never paid during a demo.
Selective OCR. Zero to two regions instead of a full viewport, except in the verification
pass where full coverage is the point.
Reporting rules
p50 and p95 for end-to-end and every stage. Peak — not mean — for heap, GPU memory
and CPU share, because peak is what determines whether the extension stays usable on a
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
22

===== PAGE 23 =====
judging machine. Cold start and warm start reported as separate figures. Every table
labelled with the backend and the hardware.
Known landmine — budget a day
Multiple ONNX Runtime Web sessions share one WebAssembly heap, and disposing a
session does not reliably return its linear memory. Teams have hit hard aborts loading a
third model sequentially inside an extension offscreen document. Mitigations: prefer the
WebGPU execution provider so allocations live GPU-side; isolate the optional local VLM in
its own worker so tearing down the worker reclaims the entire heap; never load it
concurrently with the sanitisation tier; and set the WASM thread count explicitly rather than
letting it default.
Week-one spike, before anything else extended in v4.0
Confirm that navigator.gpu.requestAdapter() returns a real adapter inside a Chrome
chrome.offscreen document and inside a Firefox MV3 event page. GPU adapter
availability from extension background contexts has been inconsistent. If it returns null,
every WebGPU number in this document becomes the WASM number and the entire
performance story changes.
The spike does not stop at the adapter. "WebGPU when available, WASM always" is an
objective, not an observed fact — a specific model on a specific backend either works or it
does not, and finding out in week five is finding out too late. Every model is therefore run
in every context before the build commits to it.
11 · Stack
Frozen contracts, replaceable models
Freeze the interfaces. Pin the implementations. Benchmark the
candidates behind them.
Version 2.0 froze technology choices and pinned every version — correct, and still policy.
Version 3.0 adds the layer above it: each perception role is a typed interface, so swapping a
detector is a config change and a benchmark run, not an architectural decision. The two
rules are not in tension. Interfaces are abstract; the implementation behind each one is
pinned to an exact revision, quantisation and runtime asset, because a silent upstream
change twelve hours before judging is an avoidable way to lose.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
23

===== PAGE 24 =====
Client
Layer
Choice
Why this one
Extension framework
WXT (Vite)
One codebase producing both a Chrome MV3 service
worker and a Firefox MV3 event page; the manifest
divergence is handled for you
Language
TypeScript, strict
Manifest and action schemas exist as types generated
from the server's Pydantic models
Interface
React + Tailwind, Side Panel API
A side panel survives page interaction; a popup does not,
and multi-step tasks need it to
Inference runtime
ONNX Runtime Web;
Transformers.js for NER and the
local VLM
Raw ORT gives manual control of pre-processing and NMS
for the detectors; Transformers.js is faster to integrate for
the transformer models
Acceleration
WebGPU, with a benchmarked
WASM path
Feature-detect navigator.gpu , and surface which
backend is live in the ledger. See the position statement
below.
Execution context
Offscreen document + dedicated
worker
MV3 service workers have no DOM and terminate when
idle; they cannot hold inference sessions
Capture
tabs.captureVisibleTab
Faster than screen capture and raises no operating-system
picker mid-demo. Rate-limited, which is why the change
gate no longer depends on it.
The interface that carries the most risk new in v4.0
Of everything in the registry below, UI element detection is the single largest
implementation gamble: a third-party detector, exported to ONNX, quantised, and run
inside an extension worker in two browsers. Every step of that chain has failed for someone.
The mitigation is not to pick a better model, it is to stop the architecture depending on any
particular one.
UIElementDetector is therefore a hard interface — screenshot in, boxes and roles out —
with three ranked implementations behind it:
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
24

===== PAGE 25 =====
Implementation
Position
A
OmniParser icon_detect_v3 ,
ONNX INT8
Preferred. Purpose-trained, MIT-licensed, ~12 MB at 640 px. Committed
only once its feasibility row is green.
B
Our own detector head, trained on
the synthetic set
No external dependency and no licence question. Started in week three
regardless of whether A is working, because the labelled data pipeline
already exists for evaluation, so the marginal cost is small and it removes
the biggest single point of failure in the client.
C
DOM-only degradation, vision
limited to faces and OCR
Always available, lower grounding score, task still completes on DOM-
rendered pages. This is the floor, and it is a floor we can demonstrate.
Model registry, with licences
Licence defect carried over from v2.0
The v2.0 registry pinned microsoft/OmniParser-v2.0 for UI element detection. Its
icon_detect model is AGPL-3.0 — it is a fine-tuned Ultralytics YOLO, and only
icon_caption is MIT. AGPL §13 has network-service implications that matter for
anything handed to a government department. OmniParser added a icon_detect_v3
based on the MIT-licensed YOLOv9 implementation in mid-2026; earlier Ultralytics-based
detectors retain their AGPL licence. We move to v3, and we add a licence column so this
cannot happen again.
Role
Pinned implementation
Licence
Notes
UI elements
OmniParser icon_detect_v3, ONNX
INT8
MIT (YOLOv9)
Purpose-trained on interactable web
elements. Fallback: our own head trained on
the synthetic set, which removes the
dependency entirely.
Faces
YuNet (OpenCV Zoo)
MIT
340 KB, sub-10 ms, no reason to use
anything larger
OCR
PP-OCRv5-mobile, via
paddle2onnx
Apache-2.0
Detection and recognition both exportable.
Selective in T2; full-frame in the verifier.
Semantic PII
gliner_multi_pii-v1, INT8
Apache-2.0
Zero-shot — new entity categories are a
config change, not a training run
Local VLM
SmolVLM-256M-Instruct
Apache-2.0
Changed from FastVLM-0.5B, which ships
under Apple's ML research licence — a poor
fit for the brief's offline-deployable clause
Server VLM
Qwen3-VL-4B-Instruct; 8B as the
upgrade
Apache-2.0
See below
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
25

===== PAGE 26 =====
Why 4B is now the default, not the fallback v3.0
On the public ScreenSpot leaderboard, Qwen3-VL-32B-Instruct leads the open-weight field
at 0.958 while Qwen3-VL-4B-Instruct reaches 0.940 — under two points for a fraction of the
compute. Given that server inference is the dominant latency term and that "GPU host
unreachable at the venue" is a live risk, 4B is the better default and 8B is the upgrade if the
benchmark on our own 300 Indian screens says otherwise. Version 2.0 had this the other
way round on the strength of published metrics rather than our own. Both are benchmarked
behind the same interface in week five, and the data decides.
Server
FastAPI + Pydantic v2 — typed contract, source of truth for the client's generated types
vLLM — OpenAI-compatible, guided JSON decoding
Session store — in-process dictionary for v1; Redis deferred until horizontal scale is
actually needed
Docker Compose + CUDA — fully offline-deployable, per the brief
Testing: Vitest and Playwright, including the egress interception suite. Benchmarking: a
custom harness reporting all five scored metrics plus task success.
State the WebGPU position precisely
The engineering rule is simple: feature-detect navigator.gpu , always ship a benchmarked
WASM path, and show which one is live. But give the accurate reason. WebGPU is not
missing from Firefox — it shipped by default on Windows in Firefox 141, reached Apple
Silicon macOS in 145 and the remaining macOS versions in 147; Chrome has had it since 113
and Safari since version 26. The real gap is Firefox on Linux, where it remains disabled by
default and is enabled through dom.webgpu.enabled in about:config on the release
channel, with Mozilla targeting a 2026 ship. Android Firefox is later still, and driver
blocklists affect older hardware everywhere. Saying "Firefox doesn't support WebGPU" to a
panel that has read the release notes costs credibility on a point where the engineering was
right.
12 · Scope
What ships, what waits, what we refuse
The largest risk to this project is building a research programme
instead of a submission.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
26

===== PAGE 27 =====
Ships in v1
v2, if week six is calm
Not building
Perception
Derived element graph, UI detector, YuNet,
selective OCR, off-screen element reporting,
coordinate contract
Fine-tuned visual-PII head
Embedding-based
change gate
Privacy
All four channels, manifest v1.1, opaque fill +
semantic label, differential verifier, value-
aware check, vault, egress guard, fail-closed
suite
Signature and ID-card classes;
CONFIDENTIAL entity list
expansion
Differential
privacy, k-
anonymity, a
policy engine,
universal
confidentiality
detection
Server
FastAPI, vLLM, Qwen3-VL-4B, guided
JSON, tripwire, origin policy
Redis, trajectory replay, 8B
upgrade
Model ensembles,
multi-model
routing
Local reasoning
Local-decision path for unambiguous fields
SmolVLM for offline mode —
click, scroll, basic form
interaction only
A local VLM in the
normal path;
autonomous
offline browsing
Performance
Screen-state cache, ROI re-analysis, warm
start, benchmarked WASM path
Streaming action execution
Telemetry pipeline
Cut deliberately: the embedding gate, Redis, two detector classes, the confidentiality policy
engine, and the local model from the normal path. Five fewer moving parts — and, usefully,
fewer inference sessions competing for the shared WebAssembly heap.
13 · Delivery
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
27

===== PAGE 28 =====
Six weeks, ordered by dependency
Wk 1
Wk 2
Wk 3
Wk 4
Wk 5
Wk 6
Capability spikes
WebGPU-in-offscreen, 20-cell
model matrix, DPR, capture
limits
Thin end-to-end spike
dumb redact → server → one
click
Skeleton — no ML
Contracts frozen
manifest, actions, coordinates
Privacy pipeline, D1 + D2
Egress invariant + fail-closed
suite
Eval harness + synthetic data
Perception — D3, D4, fusion
own detector head starts here
regardless
Adversarial + false-positive sets
Close the loop
server, freshness, re-hydration
Model benchmarks behind
interfaces
Harden, optimise, rehearse
Firefox parity, offline, run it ten
times
Fig. 11 Changed in v4.0: the capability spike now includes the twenty-cell model feasibility matrix, and our own
detector head is scheduled in week three whether or not OmniParser is working. Carried from v3.0: the first server
round trip sits in week one. Version 2.0 discovered integration failures — coordinate spaces, extension messaging,
vLLM guided-decoding quirks — in week five, with one week of slack. A throwaway thin thread in week one finds them
when they cost a day. A complete, defensible submission exists by the end of week four; weeks five and six raise the
score, they do not rescue the project.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
28

===== PAGE 29 =====
Team of six
Role
Owns
Client perception (2)
Capture, DOM extractor, detector integration, fusion, coordinate contract, executor,
freshness check
Privacy engineer (1)
Four channels, manifest, redaction, differential verifier, value-aware check, vault, egress
guard and its invariant tests
Server and agent (1)
vLLM deployment, prompting, action schema, validators, tripwire, origin policy
Evaluation and data (1)
Synthetic generator, adversarial set, false-positive set, labelled ground truth, all six
dashboards
Integration and demo (1)
Cross-browser builds, Playwright end-to-end, fail-closed suite, ledger UI, rehearsal
Finale runbook
Hours 0–2: environment and smoke test on the venue machine, including the
WebGPU/WASM capability check with the result read off the ledger. Hours 2–20: build the
specific use case handed to you — the action schema is generic, so a new task should be
configuration rather than code. Hours 20–28: tune on their data. Hours 28–32: rehearse,
including the adversarial and failure sequences. Hours 32–36: freeze. Nobody merges after
hour 32.
14 · Evidence
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
29

===== PAGE 30 =====
What we measure, and what we refuse to claim
Scored metric
Reported figure
Evidence source
Visual context — 25%
Element mAP@0.5, element recall,
grounding accuracy. Reported twice:
on clean frames and on redacted
frames.
ScreenSpot-v2 web subset plus 300 self-labelled
Indian government and banking screens, including
scanned-document pages where the DOM is empty
PII detection — 20%
Per-class precision, recall and F1.
Target recall ≥ 0.98. Precision
reported separately on the decoy set.
500 synthetic and 200 real-layout screens with
ground-truth boxes, plus the adversarial and false-
positive sets below
Redaction — 20%
Measured residual leakage; over-
redaction area ratio; block rate
Verifier logs, value-aware check results, and the
independent server-side tripwire
Client resources — 20%
Peak heap, peak GPU memory, CPU
share, weights on disk, tier firing
distribution, cold vs warm start
Browser memory API and Chrome tracing over a ten-
step task
Latency — 15%
Stage-wise p50 and p95, cache hit
rate, network-free step count, per
backend
performance.measure marks rendered as a
waterfall in the ledger
Task success after privacy
not in the rubric
Task completion rate with redaction
on, measured against the same runs
as the privacy metrics
Playwright assertions on final form state
A PII recall of 100% alongside a task success rate of zero is a failed project. The entire claim
of this submission is that privacy does not destroy usefulness, so both numbers belong on
the same slide, measured on the same runs. The ablation that makes the point is a two-row
table: grounding accuracy and task success, with redaction off and on.
Adversarial and decoy sets v3.0
Adversarial recall set
— tiny and rotated text
— partial occlusion
— text in image, canvas and SVG
— dark mode and low contrast
— dynamic popups mid-capture
— PII split across DOM nodes
— overlapping detection regions
— PDF-rendered text
— identifiers adjacent to controls
False-positive decoy set
— 12-digit order numbers
— PAN-shaped SKU codes
— GSTIN-shaped invoice refs
— tracking IDs and AWB numbers
— test card numbers failing Luhn
— reference numbers with valid state
prefixes
— dates that parse as DOB but are not
Disagreement set
— D1 says field, D2 says no
— D3 fires where D2 is silent
— one detector times out
— one detector crashes
— DOM and vision boxes disagree
beyond IoU threshold
— each verifies that union and fail-
closed behaviour hold
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
30

===== PAGE 31 =====
Generating the data
Render HTML templates — a bank statement, a PAN card view, an e-KYC page, a profile, an
application form, a scanned-document viewer — populated with generated Indian
identifiers, then screenshot them through Playwright. Ground-truth boxes come free,
because you positioned the elements. Thousands of perfectly labelled samples in an
afternoon, and the highest-leverage thing available in week one. The same generator
produces the decoy set by swapping identifier generators for lookalike generators, which
costs almost nothing and covers the precision half of a 20% metric.
Report measured, not aspirational
Zero residual leakage is the objective. It belongs on the title slide only once the harness
has demonstrated it across the full evaluation set. The same rule now applies to latency:
every figure in section 10 is labelled a budget until the harness replaces it with a
measurement. An unbacked "0.00%" or "1.1 s" is the kind of claim a panel will spend the
entire question period dismantling — and they will be right to.
15 · Risk
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
31

===== PAGE 32 =====
What could go wrong, and the prepared answer
Risk
Likelihood
Mitigation, prepared in advance
Panel reads the build as a DOM scraper,
not a vision agent v3.0
High
T1 vision on every changed frame; a scanned-ID segment in
the demo where the DOM is empty by construction; the local-
decision path shown as vision-driven; tier firing distribution on
the slide
Judging machine has no WebGPU —
Firefox on Linux
High
WASM path built and benchmarked from week one; both
budgets published; live backend shown in the ledger; never
ship WebGPU-only
WebAssembly heap exhaustion with
several models
High
Per-worker isolation, WebGPU provider, lazy loading,
measured teardown, explicit thread count
Coordinate drift on a HiDPI or zoomed
machine v3.0
Medium
Single canonical CSS-pixel space, conversions at every edge,
six-configuration CI matrix written before the executor
GPU host unreachable at the venue
Medium
Qwen3-VL-4B on a team laptop; SmolVLM offline path;
recorded video of the full run
PII missed on the unseen finale use case
Medium
Fail-closed union, differential verifier, value-aware residual
check, conservative dilation, broad zero-shot entity list
Over-redaction breaks the task
Medium
Re-hydration means masking costs no capability — this is
precisely why the design holds, and the ablation table proves
it
Long form extends below the fold v3.0
Medium
Off-screen elements reported as known-but-uncaptured; scroll
planned toward named fields the server has not seen
Hostile page attempts injection
Low
Content is data; allowlist grammar; origin policy; human gate
on irreversible actions; demonstrated live rather than asserted
Screen capture blocked on a protected
page
Low
Degrade to structure-only mode — manifest without image —
and say so in the interface
16 · Demonstration
Four sequences, twelve minutes
Fill an Indian government application using the profile already on
screen — then break it on purpose.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
32

===== PAGE 33 =====
Sequence 1 · The main task, six minutes
The profile page carries a name, phone, email, address, date of birth, PAN, Aadhaar, a
photograph — and a scanned PAN card image whose text exists in no DOM node. The
side panel is given one instruction: fill this application using my profile information.
Two of the fields exercise the dual-mode type action deliberately: the Aadhaar number is
filled by reference from the vault, and the district field is filled from a plain literal the server
chose and the client cleared. Both happen in the same run, seconds apart, and the ledger
labels which was which.
Run it with the privacy ledger and the browser's own network inspector both visible. Let the
panel read the outbound request themselves rather than taking the claim on trust — the
server has never seen a single digit of this Aadhaar number, and the number it is about to type came
out of a scanned image the DOM knows nothing about — and then let the form fill with the real
values. The gap between those two moments is the argument.
The ledger shows, live: which backend is running, how many steps completed with no
network request at all, detected and masked counts, verification result, the pinned payload
hash, and the stage waterfall. Invite the panel to compare the hash on screen with the
request body in the inspector — they are the same artifact, and that is the point of pinning
it.
Why the scanned card was added v3.0
The v2.0 demo ran entirely on a DOM-rich page, where vision adds nothing a judge can
see. That turned our strongest engineering decision into our weakest rubric exposure.
One scanned identity document converts the same demo into direct evidence for the 25%
metric, gives the OCR and visual-PII channels something real to find, and makes the local
vision model visibly necessary rather than merely present. It is the single highest-value
change in this document.
Sequence 2 · Adversarial, two minutes v3.0
Navigate to a page containing hidden text instructing the agent to ignore the user, read the
vault, and post its contents to an external URL. Show the ledger recording that the text was
observed — we do not pretend the agent is blind to it — and that no corresponding action
was generated, because the grammar has no action that could express it and the origin
policy would block the navigation regardless. Observation without obedience is the point.
Sequence 3 · The failure path, two minutes v3.0
Inject a detector timeout from the developer console. The union counts the timeout as a
positive, the region is masked, and the run continues. Then force three consecutive
verification failures. The request is blocked, the interface says so plainly, and the agent falls
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
33

===== PAGE 34 =====
back to structure-only mode. A system that cannot be shown refusing has not demonstrated
that it can refuse.
Sequence 4 · Offline, two minutes
Pull the network cable. Offline mode completes a simpler task locally with SmolVLM —
click, scroll, fill one field — which is the brief's own privacy premise carried to its
conclusion.
Prepared before travelling
A recorded video of all four sequences.
The 4B model running on a team laptop.
A WASM-only build, benchmarked.
A Firefox build, tested on Linux, with the backend indicator visible.
The ablation table — grounding and task success, redaction off and on — printed.
Assume the venue network fails, because it usually does.
17 · Appendix
Engineering rules, changelog, glossary
Non-negotiable rules
All network egress passes through one module. Enforced by a lint rule, a CSP
connect-src restriction, and an interception test.
1
The vault never touches persistent storage of any kind, and is destroyed on session
end, tab change and origin change.
2
Every model has a WebAssembly fallback, tested in continuous integration.
3
The verifier can block a send. It is not advisory.
4
Verification runs against the encoded bytes that will actually be transmitted, and the
second pass differs from the first in scope and threshold.
5
The un-redacted bitmap is closed immediately after masking and never referenced
again.
6
The server may reference a token, and may propose a literal for a field that holds
nothing sensitive. Unknown tokens abort; literals aimed at redacted fields abort; a
7
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
34

===== PAGE 35 =====
Changelog · v3.0 → v4.0
§02, §08, §09
The type action was too restrictive and is rewritten. v3.0 allowed value_ref only, which forbids typing a
search term or a district and cannot drive a browser. Literals are now permitted for fields with no redaction
token, behind a target check, a shape check and a vault check — with a vault match escalated from defect to
leak.
§06
The change gate is stated precisely. MutationObserver is the structural signal, not a claim to see
everything visual. Dynamic regions are enumerated and polled at a bounded rate, a low-rate full-frame hash
bounds the worst case, and changed frame now has a definition T1 can be gated on.
§05
The payload is a single hash-pinned artifact. Verify-then-encode left a window in which the thing checked
was not the thing sent. The ledger hash, the verified artifact and the request body are now provably the same
object.
§10, §13
The week-one spike covers models, not just the adapter. A twenty-cell feasibility matrix — five models
across Chrome and Firefox, WebGPU and WASM — gates entry into the build.
§11
UIElementDetector promoted to a hard interface with three ranked implementations. Our own detector
head starts in week three regardless of whether OmniParser is working.
§09
Origin-crossing sequence defined, with a rehearsal rule that no demo may depend on a value surviving
the transition.
§12
Universal confidentiality detection added to "not building." The taxonomy stays a config file.
Changelog · v2.0 → v3.0
§01, §06, §16
Vision made load-bearing. T1 reframed as always-on rather than gated away; scanned-document content
added to the demo; client-side decision path added. Answers the brief's requirement for a local model that
reads and decides.
literal matching a vault value halts the session as a leak.
The transmitted payload is one immutable artifact, hashed before verification and
pinned through egress. Nothing is re-encoded or re-serialized after the hash is taken.
8
No model enters the build until its feasibility row is complete across all four browser
and backend combinations.
9
Server output is schema-validated twice, on both sides, and re-validated against the
live page before execution. Validation failure aborts; there is no best-effort parse.
10
No component logs a secret value. Not the tripwire, not the verifier, not the ledger.
11
All coordinates are CSS viewport pixels. Every other space converts at its own edge.
12
Every version is pinned — library, model revision, quantisation, runtime assets — and
every model carries its licence in the registry.
13
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
35

===== PAGE 36 =====
§01
Client share corrected from 85% to a defensible split. Visual-context accuracy is shared, not ours alone.
§03
Threat model added. Four adversaries, named mitigations, stated scope limit on quasi-identifiers.
§04, §09
Action freshness and origin policy added as pipeline stages 8 and a validator rule.
§05
Egress invariant formalised with three enforcement mechanisms. Coordinate contract added. Off-screen
content policy added. "Accessibility tree" corrected to derived element graph.
§06
Change gate corrected — MutationObserver primary, capture on demand. The v2.0 tier table assumed a
free capture that tabs.captureVisibleTab does not provide.
§07
Verifier made differential and supplemented with a value-aware residual check; verification moved to the
encoded bytes. Semantic labels composited over fills. GSTIN check digit added. Confidentiality classes
added as configuration, not a policy engine. Fail-closed test matrix added.
§08
Manifest to v1.1 — coordinate block, capability block, detector provenance, field role, off-screen elements.
Unknown-token and literal-value rejection added.
§10
Two latency budgets published, WebGPU and WASM, all labelled projected. p50/p95 and peak reporting
rules stated. WebGPU-in-offscreen spike scheduled for week one.
§11
OmniParser icon_detect moved to the MIT-licensed v3 — the pinned v2.0 model was AGPL-3.0. Licence
column added. SmolVLM replaces FastVLM on licence grounds. Qwen3-VL-4B becomes the default,
8B the upgrade.
§13
Two week-one spikes added, and the first server round trip moved from week five to week one.
§14
Adversarial, decoy and disagreement sets added. Task success after privacy promoted onto the main
metrics table.
§16
Adversarial and failure-path sequences added to the demonstration.
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
36

===== PAGE 37 =====
Glossary for the viva
Term
Meaning
Redaction manifest
The versioned contract describing every mask applied, so the server can reason about
what it cannot see
Re-hydration
Substituting a real value back into a placeholder at execution time, on the client, from
memory
Fail closed
When detection is uncertain, mask anyway — the union of all detector outputs wins
Residual leakage
The fraction of transmitted payloads in which any sensitive value survived redaction
Egress guard
The single module permitted to make a network call, which refuses unverified payloads
Egress invariant
The formal, tested property that no request leaves without verified === true
Differential verification
A second detection pass that differs from the first in scope and threshold, so it can disagree
with it
Value-aware check
Searching the outgoing payload for the specific secrets the vault holds, rather than for
whatever a detector believes is secret
Payload pin
The hash taken over the single assembled byte artifact, which verification signs and egress
refuses to send without
Changed frame
A frame in which the change policy reports an observable-state change, from the structural
signal or the visual one — not every rendered frame
Cleared literal
A non-sensitive plain value proposed by the server that has passed the target, shape and
vault checks on the client
Action freshness
Re-confirming that a plan's target still exists, matches, and has not moved, before
executing it
Derived element graph
Our reconstruction of page structure from roles, ARIA, accessible names and geometry —
not the browser's native accessibility tree, which extensions cannot read
PratiBimb · Engineering dossier v4.0 (final) · PS 26171
37
